Alexis MacLean
EE 5351 MP6

In this MP, we explored two methods of sparse matrix storage and processing.
To demonstrate, we implemented matrix-vector multiplication, with the matrix provided given in a sparse format.
First with CSR, the implementation reflects that of the lecture slides, having one thread per row and serially dotting together.
The JDS implementation works with essentially the same parallelism method, just with corrected gather operation to find elements from the next columns.

QUESTION:

Consider an MxN sparse matrix with Z non-zeros and a maximum of k non-zeros per
row.
    (a) How much storage (in number of words) would a CSR representation of the 
        matrix require?
    (b) How much storage (in number of words) would a JDS representation of the 
        matrix require?


ANSWER:

(a)
The length of the data vector will be as long as however many non-0 elements there are, so Z.
The col_index will be the same length, Z.
The row pointer vector will be as long as the number of rows + 1, M+1.
Total: 2Z + M + 1.

(b)
The length of the data vector will again be however many non-0 elements there are, Z.
the column indicies the same.
The row number of non-zeros and row permutation vectors will both be as long as there are rows, M.
The column start index vector will be the length of the max number of non-0 elements in a row, k.
Total: 2Z + 2M + k




QUESTION:

In the JDS format, what is the advantage of sorting rows according to the number 
of non-zero they contain?


ANSWER:

Storing the rows in this way allows the matrix to be stored flatly without any 0 padding for any of the shorter rows/columns. It also reduces divergence in letting more adjacent threads drop off together as the shorter rows will be adjacent to each other.



QUESTION:

In the JDS format, what is the advantage of storing the data contiguously along 
the jagged diagonal instead of along the row?


ANSWER:

Storing it along the jagged diagonal allows for adjacent threads (which are ordered row-wise) to access adjacent elements from global memory, which provides much better memory performance.
